# Writing 5/29/20

I am not thinking of anything to write about.

What did you think about on your drive?

- That donuts are very good
- That I am probably not going to lose weight eating this way and that otherwise is sooort of magical thinking
- I don't care, it's Friday
- How to get people to care about things that are in their material interest but they are not currently interested in?

Describe capitalism as you've seen it, but through a Marxist lens. How Marx would probably describe the time period you're in.

- The big powers had their war for supremacy, and due to the material damages to the original big contenders, the United States came out almost universally ahead
- The only big power remaining is the USSR, *and* it's an anti-capitalist power, so the war isn't one of physical space (for the homelands, at least), but of ideas. That's why it was cold - the goal was ideological spread, not troops on the ground.
- The USA doesn't win a single war after being in the winning coalition for WWII (Korea and Vietnam, most notably). They are defeated by communists, which won't do, so cultural backlash, manufactured and grassroots, begins to take hold (if you don't support the troops, you don't support America - that kind of thing).
- The USA has probably been out of steam since around the 1970s, simply because the type of capitalism they offer cannot keep up with the capitalism that Germany, Japan, and eventually China, can do. America left its heft as a country with people ideologically committed to it back in Vietnam, and the citizens have been coping in variously more or less dangerous ways in the decades since.
- A very interesting experiment was performed on an entire generation of individuals in the USA - the Boomers - where they grew up learning capitalist propaganda right along with why the sky is blue. The result is that, in the crises of capitalism, they do not tend to blame capitalism itself, but how the system is run. That damn Congress won't do its job, while ignoring the material reasons why Congress might not do its job. Etc. Their materialism is unquestioning, but only as consumers.
- Young people are coalescing spontaneously around Marx's work, which I find to be an auspicious sign.
- Why aren't profits falling like Marx thought they would?